# Internationalisation 
also known as i18n.

## Motivation
The DAZIT application has to be made available in 4 languages.
For that reason, we have to implement and curate a system of "automatic" translation.
In particular, it means that each string in the code must be represented by a function that reacts to the users settings/preferences.

There are also parametrized strings, like strings that depend on values (example: "Current VAT is CHF 1234.55 - Please confirm).

The organisation of all the strings must be consistent over the languages. 
In our implementation, we chose to have so called namespaces for the strings. This means that each string is in a category (a.k.a. namespace).
That way, we can easily distinguish what to use where and can also have the same field names in multiple places (in different namespaces).

An additional feature includes singulars/plurals, see details below.

## Types
In order to allow consistent namespaces, etc., we've set up types for the namespaces in `./src/i18n/types/locale.js`.

We've modelled the namespaces as Immutable records, thus the syntax is a bit messy.

It consists of three sections:

1. the namespace type:
```javascript
type QAFlowNS = {
  declareGoods: string,
  toOverview: string,
  adult: string,
  adultInfo: string,
  adultCount: string,
  adultCount_plural: string,
  minor: string,
  minorInfo: string,
  minorCount: string,
  minorCount_plural: string,
};
```

2. the record factory (also defining the defaults):
```javascript
export const makeQAFlowNSRecord: RecordFactory<QAFlowNS> = Immutable.Record({
  declareGoods: 'i18n',
  toOverview: 'i18n',
  adult: 'i18n',
  adultInfo: 'i18n',
  adultCount: 'i18n: {{value}}',
  adultCount_plural: 'i18n: {{value}}',
  minor: 'i18n',
  minorInfo: 'i18n',
  minorCount: 'i18n: {{value}}',
  minorCount_plural: 'i18n: {{value}}',
});
```

3. the actual type:
````javascript
export type QAFlowNSType = RecordOf<QAFlowNS>;
````

Sounds scary? Just follow the examples. Usually you just have to add fields to 1. and 2.

## Translation files

The translation files are in `./src/i18n/locales/...`, and currently we have english (en), german (de), italian (it) and french (fr).

These files are pretty self-explanatory - still, some examples below (based on the QAFlow namespace above).

### Simple Strings

Simple strings just have the resulting string in the value: `toOverview: 'To Overview',`

### Advanced functionality

#### Parametrized Strings

Parametrized strings ("stuff with values") follows the following syntax: `adultCount_plural: '{{value}} Adults',`, where `value` is just a name for the parameter, it could be anything.
This results in something of the form: `123 Adults`.

#### Plurals

Plurals have the form: 
```javascript
{
  adultCount: '{{value}} Adult',
  adultCount_plural: '{{value}} Adults'
}
```
Based on the `count` variable (see below), the translation module either uses the singular or the plural.

## Using it in components

First you have to wrap your component in the `translate` wrapper, indicating your namespace:
```javascript
  translate(['qaFlow'])(QuestionAnswerContainer)
```
In this example, we are wrapping the `QuestionAnswerContainer` in `translate`.

The translate itself is a simple `import`: `import { translate } from 'react-i18next';`

Obviously, if the component also requires `redux`, it is:
```javascript
  export default connect(mapStateToProps, mapDispatchToProps)(
    translate(['qaFlow'])(QuestionAnswerContainer)
  );
```

Doing so will expose `t` in the props of the component, so either you `const { t } = this.props;` in the render of a class-component or you simply `const statelessComponent = ({ t }) => { ... } `.

The rest is easy: `text={t('toOverview')}` (simple strings)

And for advanced settings:

````javascript
<Text>{t('adultCount', { value: adults, count: adults })}</Text>
````

Where: `value` sets the `value` in the string and `count` decides if it is a plural or not (make sure to pass a number there).
So in this example, we have both happening at the same time.


## Links

[https://www.i18next.com/](https://www.i18next.com/)

#### Document (c) .tm ambrite 2017